+++
title = "Literacy Artifact Reflection"
date = 2017-11-26T10:53:49-05:00
draft = false
comments = true
featured_image = "/img/IMG_0054.jpg"
+++

The literacy artifact that I have chosen is my Brewtoad online homebrewing recipe and log book. I chose this artifact because I was unsure what I wanted to choose, and this seemed to have an overlap of a number of my interests and hobbies. I think that it also speaks to the rhetorical nature of literacy, and the ways in which it isn’t just a passive act or action, but something that has personal, material, ongoing, interactive, and social qualities. Literacy is an interaction and a bringing together of many different activities and literacies. I have selected is my dashboard page on the online brewing recipe site Brewtoad. The page is set up with a number of links at the top, directing towards the major features of the page. It then has my profile name “mhealy” along with a “Latest Recipes” section on the large right-hand column. The left-hand column includes buttons that direct to other areas of the profile. Each of the recipes listed on the front page include some key information, including recipe name, styles, type, and other technical features of the beer. Further down on the page is a section for “Recent Brew Logs,” which keeps track of notes and data from brewing days. There are also sections that link out to other users, ways to purchase supplies and ingredients, and search methods for other recipes by contributing users.

Literacy, in the context of this artifact, points to literacy being as a networked, material, and rhetorical activity. As represented on the dashboard page, the literacy of homebrewing is social, specialized, multimodal, practiced, material, an activity, memory, and requires expertise. The first is the situated and specialized nature of literacy. The dashboard page uses acronyms and vocabulary that is specialized to homebrewing. There is a certain level of mastery of key-terms to be able to understand and to communicate within the community. Without this specialized knowledge, the language doesn’t make sense and you are unable to interpret and use what is communicated. This specialized knowledge is tied to the specific material and biological processes of homebrewing beer. This vocabulary represents certain realities in the lived experience of brewing, fermenting, and drinking beer. In this sense, it is specialized knowledge used to communicate in reference to a particular activity and practice. This knowledge is also social, with many different actors involved in the creation and sharing of recipes and expertise. The tool is built by and for homebrewers, and has a number of features that are specific to the practice. The literacy is also rooted in the collective activity and practice of those involved both on the site and in the broader homebrew community. This represents one particular node on the network, with certain people and activities circulating, but it does also work within the broader literacies of the community of practice.

In terms of my own literacy, this represents that I need to do, see, and play with activities to gain literacy and mastery within a domain. I often see literacy in the material and activity contexts in which it operates. This is a good example, and through the notes, recipe revisions, found recipes, and new recipes, show my own working through literacy as I learn the hobby of homebrewing. It also shows increasing levels of expertise and experimentation within the activity itself, as for someone with knowledge, there are adaptations and evolutions throughout the dashboard. Additionally, there is a sustained contact with and use of the tool and the literacies. It is something that is ongoing, and that I continue to use. It is also a creative and practical outlet, with experimentation, play, and expertise all interwoven.
