+++
title = "Selection 1: SRR The Social Life of Information"
date = 2017-09-25T18:35:25-04:00
draft = false
comments = true
featured_image = "/img/telegram.jpg"
+++

### Selection 1: Thinking about Networks, Interfaces, and Open-Source

In *The Social Life of Information*, Seely Brown and Duguid explore the expansion of information and information technologies, and the effects on the people, products, business, education, and lives of these involved. They largely focus on important business and industrial players, and the ways in which they had evolved during the late 1990s. They also look at the shifting economic and cultural forces, examining how formalized structures are slow to adapt to the changing realities. They focus on the networks of information and knowledge as they existed throughout Silicone Valley during the 1990s, with extensions back to the broader shifts in technology and business that led to the situation that they were examining. Their largest claim is that information can be an actor within complex systems, and that to divorce information from the formal and informal social and cultural contexts in which it exists and circulates is impossible. They also look at it from a business and organizational standpoint, considering how information seems to travel on its own between different nodes and exchanges on in the system.

While I found the distinctions of information and knowledge useful, along with some of their examples of information and knowledge flows, I largely found the book a struggle to get through. The largest was the essentialization of the business aspects of technology—I get their standpoint and audience, but how very neoliberal—and how much they ignored of the growing knowledge and information networks that intersected with Silicone Valley, especially at that time. I know that it is part of how this is dated, and their particular standpoints, but there is no mention of Linux, nor opensource software, they misnamed a number of important companies at the time, and glossed over other networks that extended beyond and through many of these companies that they were talking about. There was also a certain sense of how to establish and maintain a culture that is sensitive to information and knowledge as being an important business culture critique that I am not involved with. Part of it, I’m sure, is not being involved directly in business, nor largely concerned with the broader business and economic arguments that they were making. I also found, in their attempts to broaden our conception of information, that they missed a lot, and essentialized technology along the way. It also felt as if they were trying to do too much, and it therefore felt shallow at times.

This volume challenges us to think more fully about information, what it is, how it travels, how it impacts the many actors and technologies that it interacts with as it circulates. It adds important considerations of the context of data and information. It makes us think about issues with composition in terms of interface, design, circulation, remix, tools, and technologies. It also asks us to continue to consider place and context for compositions and composers. It also challenges us to think more generously about composition by considering circulation, process, product, and audience alongside the various inputs and outputs that each interacts with along the way. It does bring in important considerations of how technology does, and does not, impact the thinking and actions of those involved. There are also important considerations when it comes to what people do with information, and what information does to people. This sets an interesting popular baseline as we move forward with our continued pursuits and discussions. It also reminds us that there are many layers of involvement, and that its never just process or product.

[Selection One Reflection: Thinking about Networks, Interfaces, and Open Source] (/post/selection-1-reflection)
