+++
title = "Selection 3: Collaborative Assemblage"
date = 2017-11-13T12:04:42-05:00
draft = false
featured_image = "/img/computer-class-room.png"
+++
For this third selection, I chose a collaborative blog post on assemblage. [The post can be found here](https://fsu2017digitalrevolution.blogspot.com/2017/10/isnt-assemblage-all-of-things.html), and I've copied the text of the post below, though the color of the fonts did not carry with it.

[A reflection on this piece can be found here] (/post/selection-3-reflection/)

---

## Isn't Assemblage All of the Things?:
### An assemblage by Kamila, Michael, Liana, and Brendan

We could think of assemblage as a way of composing using “disparate elements” or the “use, reuse, and repurposing of materials” (Yancey and McElroy 4). Assemblage, or the “practice [of] bringing together everyday materials,” constructs “a new text … emerging from and bearing traces of a mix of connotations and contexts that also has symbolic import” (qtd. in Yancey and McElroy 5-6). In other words, assemblage reflects multiple materials, literacy practices/processes, contexts, and meanings that come together to create a different text.

As an ontology, assemblage is a relatively recent concept in rhetoric and composition that connects to materiality, everyday writing, and networks. Outside of our field, the term’s centuries-old origins can be traced to art compositions of everyday materials (Yancey and McElroy 6). As a pedagogy, assemblage values multiple literacy practices (academic and otherwise) and may help students see their academic and non-academic composing practices in different critical ways.

And so we’ve decided to assemble our perspectives on assemblage, and to think about what they all have to offer, and how collectively they add to our understandings of process, ontology, teaching, and text.

Kamila: blue
Michael: green
Liana: red
Brendan: purple

### Assemblage as Ontology

Alex Reid, through Jody Shipka, argues that assemblage theory allows the creator to look into the way that the external relations between humans and nonhumans create symbolic behaviors, and if we are to operate under this theory, then we would be able to visualize the ways in which we create networks.(Reid 29). If we are already operating under this theory-- of assemblage as ontology-- then that means that we are acknowledging its existence around us and are rhetorically aware of the objects that we use to create meaning and how they work together. When we compose a text, share a tweet, teach a class, even when we cook, we are combining different objects and thus creating new assemblages. This is because our ontology is constituted by the act of taking individual objects (human or nonhuman) and recontextualizing them to fit within our ecology of being. Based on the practices of composing, teaching, compiling, etc., we understand “what is” to be a set of ecologies that we then recontextualize through the combining and creation of networks.

Through the lens of assemblage theory, Rice’s interest in our “drive to respond” is what pushes us to understand existence through aggregation, or the collection and combination of a variety of matter (Rice 43). Rice uses the term “aggregation” to describe the act of gathering and collecting a variety of materials, such as objects or ideas, into a space (Rice 43). To synthesize, if our theory of existence is that there is a plethora of human and nonhuman objects, each operating within their own network, which we then assemble/aggregate to create our own ecology of existence, then our “drive to respond” is our need to find logic within our ecology. Logic and ontology are closely related, with logic being “the most general forms of thought” and ontology being “the most general features of what there is” (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy). The Encyclopedia of Philosophy says that logic and ontology correspond because ontology “contains individuals that have properties” and that creates the link between thought and reality. Rice’s “drive to respond” is our attempt at creating logic within our reality of “what is.” He uses a Facebook post in his example to note the way people will gather on an issue because they feel like they need to respond. That example can apply to any act of assemblage-- we combine objects in order to find meaning.

We can define our ontology as assemblage if we investigate the way that we practice our lives, just as Stephen McElroy and Travis Maynard do in their chapter. They detail a new way to approach composing through assemblage by viewing the act of writing as a way to engage and contribute to the production and evolution of situations (McElroy and Maynard 102). This approach operates under the assemblage theory in that composition is a form of assemblage because through writing we contribute to an already existing product. While this theory of assemblage as ontology may have holes in it (because the theory of “what is” is never complete) the goal is to see how everything we do is assemblage. In the following sections, you will find this theory applied to teaching, texts, and processes.

### BH Thinks: Assemblage as a Way of Teaching

Assemblage as a way of teaching, for us, is productively couched in discussing delivered, experienced, and lived curricula. If we accept an assemblage as an ontology, then students and ourselves are already embedded in a lived experience with assemblage. Jeff Rice’s “They Eat Horses, Don’t They?” presents aggregation as a reading practice that assum)es assemblages are part(s) of our everyday experiences. Aggregation for Rice is the process of reading assemblages, usually through an assembly of reading tactics and associations that constitute our reading literacy. The reading of them makes these assemblages rhetorical rather than background ephemera. Thus, we can think of lived experiences constituting assemblages that need to be read rhetorically to be understood fully. This type of critical reading is what we aim to deliver in an assemblage-informed pedagogy. We can help students understand their terministic screens and the effect those screens may produce in our interpretive practices. However, Kalmbach, Michaud, and McElroy and Maynard discuss difficulties or juxtapositions in students’ experienced curricula, particularly in their prior composing literacies and understanding of what constitutes “writing.”

 Per the above authors, the juxtaposition between students’ prior experienced curricula —marked by a lived curriculum embedded in assemblages—and delivered curriculum of assemblage can create tensions. These tensions can be productively used in the classroom. Kalmbach writes, “In the concept of assemblage, we see the same tensions between theories of the assemblage text and an assemblage process versus our lived experiences of a unitary text and a unitary process” (73). Postmodern theories of being and theories of literacies suggest that the unitary text and composing processes, which students are often taught prior to FYC, is a falsehood. And we believe that falsehood can be productively countered with assemblage pedagogies, such as the pedagogies of Kalmbach, Michaud, and McElroy and Maynard report.

### Assemblage as Text

Each of this week’s authors positions text in a unique way, whether in relation to our composition classrooms, conceptions of agency, and the immediacy of mediated spaces. McElroy and Maynard approach texts and textual production from the Johnson-Eilola and Selber perspective: “all texts are assemblages” (103). In their FYC course, Maynard and McElroy ask students to analyze, draw connections between, and create assemblages, and they ask students to see themselves as assemblers (instead of writers or composers).  McElroy and Maynard’s course is developed on the basis that the kinds of texts students interact with and create, both inside and outside of academia, are assemblages.

From another perspective, Rice considers responses as texts, or “assemblages based on aggregation” (45). Rice’s interest in response complicates what we might see as a unified text. He examines response texts as interconnected and juxtaposed, looking at the ways readers and texts “engage the logic of aggregation” including link-sharing “into complex bodies of information that are seldom stable” (45). Like Reid, Rice notes these texts blur the boundary between human, non-human, and media spaces. Quoting McLuhan, Rice explains that social media responses are often built around a sense of involvement: “remixes, parodies, status updates, tweets, and blog posts frame a digital culture of information brushing up against other information” (47). The phrase “brushing up against other information” complicates what we mean by text because where does it start and where does it stop? Our circulation maps were probably a testament to this question: sometimes, the origins are clear but tracing a text through physical and/or digital spaces can be a big, broad task. That said, also like Reid, Rice is interested in the opportunities that assemblage and digital intersections affords scholars. Reid looks at big data and digital texts as products of and operating between human/non-human networks (37).

These discussions are important when we consider how assemblage works inside and outside of our classrooms, especially when we think about traditional academic genres like the academic essay and more contemporary digital genres like the classroom ePortfolio (Blair’s “ePortfolio Artifacts”). I also think these readings emphasize the different meanings behind “text.” For clarity, we may place text under a certain genre or as an assemblage. However, Rice’s responses remind us texts are also building blocks that are sometimes messy and beyond classifying or organizing into a cohesive whole.

### Michael here - Assemblage and Process

When we think of assemblage as a process, we may think of something like this:
{{< instagram BaAOokSgdCp >}}

Or we may think of the process that are “built primarily, but not exclusively, from existing texts” (13). We tend, as language studying students, to turn towards text as a default. While we have been pushed, through this program and our experiences, to think differently, our discourse communities still highly value the power of languaging. Viewing assemblage as a process allows us a new means of examining the materials and labor associated with composing. In following McElroy and Maynard, Michaud, and Blair, examining the process of assemblage allows for a deeper inquiry into the moments of invention, the materials involved, and the social aspects of moments of composing. We have seen assemblage as operating within our composing practices.

I see my own composing processes being highly assembled. I am very much a visual/spatial/temporal thinker, and I see myself as gathering materials and looking for those moments of “kairos,” as presented by Michaud, where there is a connection between the what and when of composing. I think of our own processes of composing this text: organizing a strategy meeting at Lucky Goat, keeping Kamila in touch as she was out of town, setting up the Google Doc, bring in our different voices, going to find that cool video on Instagram, the push and pull of a multi-voiced response. This view of assemblage as process provides us numerous tools for analysis, process, and pedagogy, including a positioning towards the material implications of composing. This view of assemblage as a process is important in its stance towards the material, textual, linguistic, social, and cognitive processes that are involved in the process of creation. Process helps to get to the stuff of rhetoric and composing by looking at the actions in the moments of creation, revision, negotiation, and delivery.

### Conclusion

So, If assemblage is ontological, then doesn’t everything else follow? Well, if assemblage truly is the way of the world, especially when it comes to creating things through languaging acts, then the other perspectives would seem to follow from that materialist look. However, thinking through the aspects of assemblage as text, as teaching, and as process allow for avenues of approach and analysis, and they offer perspectives for approaching a variety of composing events with an aim towards doing something rhetorical out of the moment. This also offers us ways to think about everyday writing and digital writing. Assemblage, and these investigations, has function as a threshold concept for our group, helping us to approach composing as an embodied, intersectional, material, and temporal experience. As Brendan mentioned in our conversation, it offers us a way of using the lived, experienced, and delivered curriculums in our own teaching. Assemblage also necessitates the importance of drawing boundaries and defining perspectives in context, and towards the tasks at hand.
